[JOB] Staff Scientist – Senior Statistician (Biostatistician)  The Center for Cancer Research (CCR), National Cancer Institute (NCI), National Institutes of Health (NIH) invites applications for a senior statistician / biostatistician to work within the Office of Collaborative Biostatistics (OCB) of the Office of the Clinical Director. The CCR is the largest division of the NCI intramural research program and comprises nearly 250 basic and clinical research groups. The OCB is the primary statistical component of the CCR’s clinical research group, performing statistical design and review of clinical trials, data analysis, and consultation on statistical topics. 
About the Position
The successful candidate will collaborate with physician investigators as a biostatistician in the clinical branches of the CCR located in Bethesda but may also collaborate with investigators in the basic science area. The statistician will utilize a variety of skills primarily to provide statistical designs, to perform data analyses, and to prepare results for publication. Work is primarily in early phase (phase 1 and 2) clinical trials for novel anti-cancer agents studied in the CCR. The statistician will also complete data analysis for other studies of interest to the investigators. Most of the collaboration will be with physicians, while some will be with PhD-level scientists.  The candidate will also serve on scientific review and/or safety committees that require input from a CCR clinical trials statistician.
The successful candidate will be able to collaborate on multiple simultaneous projects and, as a Staff Scientist, will work under the general direction of the Head of the OCB, Dr. Laura Yee.   A high degree of independence, ability to work in a team on projects along with medical researchers from many fields, and interest and ability to learn and apply new statistical methods as needed are required. The position is located in Rockville, MD, and there is an in-office expectation of 3 days per week.
REQUIRED SKILLS: Eligible candidates must have a Ph.D. or equivalent degree in statistics, biostatistics, or a related field. At least 5 years of relevant experience in the design of clinical trials and analysis of a wide variety of biomedical data is highly desirable. Expertise designing and analyzing phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials in oncology are highly desirable. Skill and expertise in performing statistical analyses using the following methods are required: survival data analysis methods; analysis of longitudinal and repeated measures data, including methods for handling missing data; use of linear and non-linear models; use of published non-parametric and parametric statistical methods. Familiarity with Bayesian methods of design of clinical trials and analysis of data using Bayesian methods, and familiarity with specialized software to determine sample sizes for clinical trials are desirable. 
Excellent oral and written communication skills are required, as the position involves independent communication and collaboration with physicians and scientists, typically leading to publications in medical and scientific journals. Interest and ability to perform independent or collaborative methodologic research with other statisticians on topics related to design of clinical trials or other statistical methods relevant to the position are desirable. Expertise performing statistical analyses using a statistical software such as R, Python, or SAS is required and the ability to perform advanced R, Python, or SAS programming is preferred.  

Selection for this position will be based solely on merit, with no discrimination for non-merit reasons such as race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, political affiliation, marital status, disability, age, or membership or non-membership in an employee organization. NIH encourages the application and nomination of qualified women, minorities and individuals with disabilities.  NIH provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities. If you require reasonable accommodation during any part of the application and hiring process, please notify us. The decision on granting reasonable accommodation will be made on a case-by-case basis.  This position is subject to a background investigation.  
Applicants should submit a cover letter and current curriculum vitae.  Applications will be accepted on a rolling basis.  Submit application to Laura Yee (laura.yee@nih.gov).